# Data-Mining

Data Mining Project


Specifically, this project concerns with the research on developing a recommender system. You are asked to conduct the research on recommender systems 

Recommender systems have been studied extensively in the literature and have also been found popularly useful in many real-world applications. A recommender system is considered in the scenario where we have m different users and n different items in a specific application (e.g., in an E-commerce application we have n different customers potentially intending to buy m different commercial items) where a user i may give an item j a rating value k based on this user’s preference (i ∈ [1,… , m]; j ∈[1,…,n]; k∈[1,…,K]). Essentially, the whole user preference rating data can be represented as a matrix of n by m where each element of this matrix is the value k if the user in question gave a rating for the item in question, and 0 if no such rating was given yet. Initially, all the elements of this matrix are 0. After we have collected a certain amount of such user preference rating data, this matrix becomes partially filled out with different non-zero values. The goal of a recommender system is that, after we have collected a certain amount of the user preference rating data, the system is able to predict the rating value k of user i for item j if user i has not yet given such a rating. In other words, given such a partially filled out matrix, a recommender system shall be able to fill out all the predicted rating values for those elements with the current value of 0. That is, a recommender system mathematically is a solution to a matrix value completion problem.


You use the given dataset (file: train.txt) to train and evaluate your solution. Note that you may want to split the given dataset into two parts with one for actual training and the other for evaluation. The given dataset (file: train.txt) is a partially filled out rating data matrix. The matrix is given in an ASCII text file where each row is a non-zero element of this matrix with three entries: the user ID number, the item ID number, and the rating value. The rating value is in the range of [1, 5] in integer where 1 means that the user likes the item the least and 5 means that the user likes the item the best. The matrix has 943 users (m = 943) and 1682 items (n = 1682). Your goal is to fill out all the entries of this matrix with the current value as 0 (or no value yet). When you report your result at the end of this phase, you must make sure that your code generates an ASCII text file for the whole rating matrix with each element filled out (either as given or as the predicted rating value by your code). The output text file must follow the format of one element of the matrix as one row beginning with the element for the first user for the first item, followed by the first user for the second item, …, the first user for the last item, the second user for the first item, …, the second user for the last item, …, the last user for the first item, …, the last user for the last item; each row of the file has three numbers: user ID number, item ID number, and the rating value, separated by a space. A sample file is given as submit_sample.txt. 
